The Big-mac Index and the Purchasing Power Parity
================
The Code Ninjas

## Summary

The aim of the project is to find out “What is Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) and how has it changed over the years across countries?”. Purchasing Power Parity also known as PPP is basically an exchange rate of one currency for another which compares how much a typical basket of goods in one country costs compare to that of the other country. So, in theory, PPP should be equal to the exchange rate of these two countries, but in practice, this is usually not the case.

The Big-Mac Index dataset consists of 1,520 observations (rows) and 19 variables (columns). Each row represents a country at a specific time (year-month-date) while the columns represent crucial information related to the countries. The data is only accountable for the years 2000-2021.

The Big Mac prices are from McDonald’s, and the exchange rates are from Thomson Reuters. The GDP per person data is from the IMF World Economic Outlook reports.

The Big Mac Index is used as it would be an accurate way of looking at the PPP in the real world since the burger would be the same and hold the same intrinsic value no matter what country it is in.


Write-up of your project and findings go here. Think of this as the text
of your presentation. The length should be roughly 5 minutes when read
out loud. Although pacing varies, a 5-minute speech is roughly 750
words. To use the word count addin, select the text you want to count
the words of (probably this is the Summary section of this document, go
to Addins, and select the `Word count` addin). This addin counts words
using two different algorithms, but the results should be similar and as
long as you’re in the ballpark of 750 words, you’re good! The addin will
ignore code chunks and only count the words in prose.

You can also load your data here and present any analysis results /
plots, but I strongly urge you to keep that to a minimum (maybe only the
most important graphic, if you have one you can choose). And make sure
to hide your code with `echo = FALSE` unless the point you are trying to
make is about the code itself. Your results with proper output and
graphics go in your presentation, this space is for a brief summary of
your project.

## Presentation

Our presentation can be found [here](presentation/presentation.html).

## Data

GitHub. 2021. GitHub - TheEconomist/big-mac-data: Data and methodology for the Big Mac index. [online] Available at: <https://github.com/TheEconomist/big-mac-data> [Accessed 2 December 2021].
[Retrieval Date 22 October 2021].

Include a citation for your data here. See
<http://libraryguides.vu.edu.au/c.php?g=386501&p=4347840> for guidance
on proper citation for datasets. If you got your data off the web, make
sure to note the retrieval date.

## References

List any references here. You should, at a minimum, list your data
source.
